People stack skills like they're Pokémon cards. They grab public ones off of random repositories, and the truth is most of them aren't even useful. And the ones that are carry the risk of having malicious code. And what happens is they end up piling dozens of skills that they never trigger.
And the ones they do, they never prune, they never optimize, and they never look for areas to make it that much better. So, if you're sitting on an empire of stale and insecure skills, then this video will take your skill set to the next level. And if you stick around to the very end, I'm going to walk you through eight different tips that you can use to make your skill experience that much better.
So, this is how it could feel to sit on tens of different skills. You have this false sense of security that you're covered on every single angle. Whatever the AI needs, it's going to have a skill for that. Very similar to back in the day when we used to say there's an app for that, now there's a skill for that. But from the clients we've worked with and the community members I've taught, I can tell you that most use a small fraction of all the skills they have in their system.
And you might say, "Who cares? What if I had 100 skills? How does that change my Claude Code experience?" Well, if you load the slash context of Claude Code, you'll be able to scroll down and see that each and every one of these skills, when I start a brand new session, activates. And although each one is small, between 69 to maybe 150 tokens, these add up over time.
And most importantly, they get carried forward through context. So, even though these skills take a fraction of the overall context window, over time, as you have very long conversations and you forget to start brand new conversations to compact in a very useful way, you'll have all kinds of tool calls, stale skills, all of these in context.
And then you'll ask the question, "Why is my Claude Code so dumb?" And many forget what these models are actually doing. If you take a look at this diagram right here, it's not just the skills that we load every single session. We have Claude MD files. Sometimes those are bloated on their own. Then we have rules. We have old files.
We have old context in those files. And then on top of that, you're stacking on all of these additional skills. The more you jam in the context window, the less you'll be able to source why something's not working or why your Claude code isn't firing the right skill at the right time for the right use case. And one additional thing I see is that many skills have very long descriptions, and the average person doesn't know that that description will not even make it into the core context window when Claude code is loaded. So when it comes to the
YAML front matter of any one of these skills, the name should be unbelievably descriptive in a short amount of words. So just as a little preview, you can see here at this project level, we have a daily stand-up skill, we have a daily planner skill, today's tasks, and morning routine. Depending on the laziness of your prompting on a particular day, any one of these could fire, and your ability to control that gets minimized.
And when it comes to the description of the skill, most people don't know that after a certain character limit, it gets cut off from Claude's view. So you could have a whole essay on when to use this Claude skill specifically in every circumstance, and it will only see the first preview of it. You might be so obsessed with getting all of your standard operating procedures inside of a skill, they don't actually think of the experience of using it, the UX of opening up a skill and having some form of feedback loop.
So for example, for 90% of the skills that I produce, I use what's called the ask user input tool, which basically interviews me in some way. And at the end of the session, I do my best to have my skills interview me, or I do what's called reverse meta prompting to improve that skill for next time.
And I'll show you an example, but the TLDR is that reverse meta prompting would allow you to have a bad experience or an iterative experience with a skill, and at the very end of the session, once you've done things wrong and finally done it right, you can tell Claude code, "Hey, based on this entire back and forth, we got to X outcome.
I want you to map the critical path that would have taken us from A to B a lot faster for next time." Because then you can sculpt the perfect skill over time. And by the way, if all of this talk about skills is making you want to take your Claude code skills to the next level, then you want to check out the first link in the description below.
Once you join the early AI doctors community, you'll gain access to tons of resources, including my living course for Claude code that we keep adding to, on top of all of my exclusive skills that you'll never see on YouTube. If that sounds interesting to you, check out the link. Otherwise, let's get back to the video.
I've never seen someone make the perfect skill that fires 100% of the time on their first shot. So, while stacking skills might make you feel good, behind the scenes it's actually the very reason for your discomfort in using AI day to day. Because the concept of a skill is so straightforward for someone that is technical or non-technical, many people will default towards using skills for everything.
But, some skills deserve to be rules in a folder, and others deserve to be an entry in your Claude MD file. Especially when it comes to using skills to access things like APIs, a command line interface might be a way better option. And depending on how deterministic this process is, meaning how predictable and how many steps go from A to Z in a way that's the exact same every single time.
If it meets that criteria, then an automation is way better than a skill. A skill is a suggestion to the AI, but a hook or a Python function is a deterministic rule. Now, before we hop into some hands-on examples, what makes a good skill? We've talked about all the bad, but what is the cross-section or anatomy of a skill that scales? Like I said before, the name should be so simple, and it should be so different from every other skill.
If you have two or three skills with similar names, odds are the underlying functionalities are also similar and they'll overlap. And when it comes to descriptions, you want trigger-heavy descriptions, where it tells Claude code when to unequivocally use and invoke these skills. Outside of that, the thing that separates good skills from bad skills is what's called progressive disclosure.
And this is a fancy way to say, how do you segment your skill in a way where Claude code will only look at certain parts as needed. A good example is this. If you have a skill that has multiple functionalities, one of them extracting and handling PDFs, if you have a specific section that's called extract PDF text, it will only use this Python file to open that PDF if it needs to, which is way better than this where you have a whole blob of text that Claude Code will read non-stop every single time no matter what.
And now imagine you had 50 of these skills with all these series of blobs. I would bet they'd have way more hallucinations in your sessions that you'd blame Claude Code's model on versus your underlying infrastructure. And like I said, when it comes to the user experience of using a skill, having a skill interview you, again using this thing called the ask user input tool.
I'll show you what it looks like shortly. And then from there, breaking down what process should follow on from the interview and finally, how the skill or you will provoke a reflection. The whole point of a reflection is that it pushes Claude Code to see what it could have learned better. So you can imagine your skill as some form of clay sculpture and you have to keep chipping away at it and sculpting it to the leanest and meanest version of it that will invoke and work in the fewest tries possible.
Now let's take a look at this hypothetical folder. Let's say we have the skills folder and we have, like we said before, a daily planner, daily standup, morning routine and today's tasks. If we scroll down and we take a little bit of a preview, you'll see that the name and the description are really similar across all of them.
And although this is an exaggeration example, the more I pry into people's skill databases, the more overlaps I see in these descriptions. If you take a look through yours and you realize that you probably are suffering from this problem, one thing you can do is literally ask Claude Code to consolidate all of these into one skill and it will do its best to use the skill creator 2.
0, which is a skill that Claude Code has to build and optimize skills to take all of them and combine them into one. And a few seconds later, we have this new consolidated skill. If we go to Claude Code and say, "I want you to actually edit the functionality and the user experience of the skill so that it properly uses ask user input tool to ask for whatever relevant information would set the skill up for success with the highest likelihood possible.
" Now, it's written it out as four separate words here, although the tool is actually one non-separated word that's called ask user input tool, but it should understand exactly what we mean. Now, once that's done, one other thing that you can do is you can make Claude code test your skill before you even ever test it.
So, you can literally say, "I want you to spin up some sub agents to actually test this skill and battle test it to see if there are any redundancies, if there are any areas where we can improve the user experience." And you see right here, it's going to spin up two sub agents in parallel. One to role-play diverse users to surface UX friction, user journey, the other that audits for redundancies and structural weaknesses.
So, instead of you having to battle test it and constantly go back to your session and edit it, you can have a lot of this iteration and testing happen within the same session. And after a few minutes, the agents come back and tell you about all of the high impact, medium impact, and low impact issues that you can fix.
In this case, you can see I have a very sophisticated prompt here that I sent over. Once it actually resolves all that, it'll tell you all of the net changes applied and you can start using this right away. Now, what happens if we have another scenario where we have another skill, let's called client proposal drafter, and behind the scenes, it works okay, but only okay.
It's kind of like a half-built bridge and you want to make it that much better. So, for simplicity, let's say we just fired over this prompt and then invoke the skill correctly, asked me for some information, prepared a proposal, and I looked at it and I said, "Add my company Pragmatic Solutions." And I went again and I told it, "Hey, this seems a little bit formulaic.
" Based on this one piece of feedback within this session, it will change. Maybe eventually I'm happy with it. But 90% of people don't do this next part, which is asking something like this. Reflect on how that session went. Critique the client proposal draft skill against what it got wrong, then propose a concrete edit to the skill that fixes the gaps, and then show me the difference.
It will then go through, understand what went well in the session, and what could have been improved, proposes some edits, and tells you what those edits should be. Notice how one of them is the specificity of the description itself. And as you go down, it'll tell you every single thing. You can go back and forth with it until you're happy.
Now, this seems simplistic, but if you improve this skill by 1% every single day for 30 days, by the end of the month, you'll have an ironclad skill. And finishing off, these are eight little nuggets that you can take away to help you prune your skills that much better. Now, the first one I wrote here was run it cold. And what this means is to purposely run a very vague prompt and see if it will still invoke the same skill they're looking for.
This will give you some stimuli that one, the skill is unique enough amongst all the other skills, that there's no overlap, there's no noise. And two, that most likely, the description is sufficient enough for a Claude code to know exactly when to use it. And the next one is about checking the budget. How do you make sure that your description has enough information that it knows exactly when to trigger it, but lean enough they don't have to be too verbose.
For number three, if it makes sense to have the skill interview you to increase the chances that it has all the prerequisite information to fire correctly, then all you have to do is ask Claude code to bake in the ask user input tool. Number four, if the skill is related to anything related to copy, then making sure built into the skill are a series of rules of not using m dashes, not having sycophancy, basically programming the entire tonality of the skill.
And number five and six can be interrelated, where number five is about pushing the skill to ask you to rate it out of 10 on how that session went. Kind of like a customer support representative. If you tell it seven, then it should also ask you, why was it a seven and not a 10? Number seven, I wrote wrong primitive. And what this means is, is this the right tool for the job? Does this deserve to be a skill or should it be a rule, a Claude MD, or something else in the Claude code infrastructure? And when it comes to the last tip, I actually have a golden
nugget for you. When it comes to optimizing my skills, I use this pre-canned prompt where I tag what's called the Claude code guide agent. This is an agent that is up-to-date with the best practices for things like skills, rules, hooks, etc. So if we pop into one of my markdown files here, this is an example of the exact prompt that I've given in the past to improve my existing skills.
So you can see I tag the Claude code guide agent and I say, "I want you to audit and optimize a skill that just underperformed in this session. Treat this as a serious skill engineering review, not a quick suggestion." And then I tell it the exact path to the skill in question. And then this will go through and it will tell it basically what the skill produced.
So it interviewed and it told me this and that and these were the expectations I had and this is what actually happened. So then I'll tell it to read the skill, audit it against the Anthropic official skills guidance since that changes all the time. Then as we scroll down, identify what failed, run the structural checklist. This has a series of little subsegments that it goes through.
Then at the very bottom, ask the wrong primitive question. Based on what the skill actually does, should it be a rule, a one-liner in the Claude MD, a standalone CLI command, a slash command, etc. Using a prompt like this on top of the other tips that I've given you will increase the chances that you'll have a lean and mean stack of skills that you use all the time and you constantly improve.
So hopefully that demystifies what makes a good and a bad skill and why most people that talk about skills aren't talking about the dark sides of it. And for that prompt I showed you, you can find it in the second link in the description below so you can take it for a spin, audit your own skill set, pun intended, and see where you can optimize it.
And last but not least, if this video makes you want to go that much deeper [music] on the entire Cloud Code ecosystem and mash the things like skills, rules, Cloud MDs, etc., then make sure you check the first link in the description below. For the rest of you, I would super appreciate if you leave a like and comment on the video.
It really helps to reach and grow this channel. I'll see you in the next one.